---
title: Streaming and Event Time
description: How event timestamps are being used in stream processing and in Jet in particular.
id: version-4.0-event-time
original_id: event-time
---

In an unbounded stream of events, the dimension of time is always there.
To appreciate this, consider a bounded stream: it may represent a
dataset labeled "Wednesday", but the computation itself doesn't have to
know this. Its results will be understood from the outside to be "about
Wednesday":

![Batch Processing](assets/eventtime-batch.svg)

An endless stream, on the other hand, delivers information
about the reality as it is unfolding, in near-real time, and the
computation itself must deal with time explicitly:

![Stream Processing](assets/eventtime-streaming.svg)

## Event Time Vs. Processing Time

We represent the reality in digital form as a stream of *events*. Most
importantly, every data item has a *timestamp* that tells us when the
event occurred. All the processing logic must rely on these timestamps
and not whatever the current time happens to be when running the
computation. This brings us to these two concepts:

* **Event time**: determined by the event's timestamp

* **Processing time**: the current time at the moment of processing an
  event

![Event Time Vs. Processing Time](assets/eventtime-processingtime.svg)

The difference between these two ways to account for time comes up often
in the design of distributed streaming systems and to some extent you'll
have to deal with it directly.

## Time Windowing

With unbounded streams you need a policy that selects bounded chunks
whose aggregate results you are interested in. This is called
*windowing*. You can imagine the window as a time interval laid over the
time axis. A given window contains only the events that belong to that
interval.

### Sliding Window

![Sliding Window](assets/eventtime-sliding.svg)

Sliding window is probably the most natural kind of window: it slides
along the time axis, trailing just behind the current time. In Hazelcast
Jet, the window doesn't actually slide smoothly but in configured steps.

Sliding window aggregation is a great tool to discover the dynamic
properties of your event stream. Quick example: say your event stream
contains GPS location reports from millions of mobile users. With a few
lines of code you can split the stream into groups by user ID and apply
a sliding window with linear regression to retrieve a smoothened
velocity vector of each user. Applying the same kind of window the
second time will give you acceleration vectors, and so on.

### Tumbling Window

![Tumbling Window](assets/eventtime-tumbling.svg)

In Jet, the tumbling window is just a special case of the sliding
window. Since the sliding step is configurable, you can set it equal to
the window itself. You can imagine the window tumbling over from one
position to the next. Since Jet has an optimized computation scheme for
the sliding window, there is little reason not to use a sliding step
finer than the size of the window. A rule of thumb is 10-100 steps per
window.

### Session Window

![Session Window](assets/eventtime-session.svg)

While the sliding window has a fixed, predetermined length, the session
window adapts to the data itself. When two consecutive events are
separated by more than the configured timeout, that gap marks the
boundary between the two windows. If there is no data, there is no
session window, either.

## Event Disorder

In an ideal world, event time and processing time would be the same and
events would be processed immediately. In reality this is far from true
and there can be a significant difference between the two. The
difference is also highly variable and is affected by factors like
network congestion, shared resource limitations and many more. This
results in what we call *event disorder*: observing the events out of
their true order of occurrence.

Here's what an ordered event stream looks like:

![Ordered Events](assets/eventtime-order.svg)

Notice that latency not only exists, but is variable. This has no major
impact on stream processing.

And here's what event disorder looks like:

![Disordered Events](assets/eventtime-disorder.svg)

Latency is all over the place now and it has disordered the events. Of
the five events shown, the second one processed is already the latest.
After processing it Jet has no idea how much longer to wait expecting
events older than it. This is where you as the user are expected to
provide the *maximum event lag*. Jet can't emit the result of a windowed
aggregation until it has received all the events belonging to the
window, but the longer it waits, the later you'll see the results. So
you must strike a balance and choose how much to wait. Notice that by
"wait" we mean event time, not processing time: when we get an event
with timestamp `t_a`, we are no longer waiting for events with timestamp
`t_b <= t_a - maxLag`.
