hazelcast-documentation/src/Map-Persistence.md, before:



### Map Persistence

Hazelcast allows you to load and store the distributed map entries from/to a persistent datastore such as relational database. If a loader implementation is provided, when `get(key)` is called, if the map entry does not exist in-memory, then Hazelcast will call your loader implementation to load the entry from a datastore. If a store implementation is provided, when `put(key,value)` is called, Hazelcast will call your store implementation to store the entry into a datastore. Hazelcast can call your implementation to store the entries synchronously (write-through) with no-delay or asynchronously (write-behind) with delay and it is defined by the `write-delay-seconds` value in the configuration.

If it is write-through, when the `map.put(key,value)` call returns, you can be sure that

-   `MapStore.store(key,value)` is successfully called so the entry is persisted.

-   In-Memory entry is updated

-   In-Memory backup copies are successfully created on other JVMs (if `backup-count` is greater than 0)

If it is write-behind, when the `map.put(key,value)` call returns, you can be sure that

-   In-Memory entry is updated

-   In-Memory backup copies are successfully created on other JVMs (if `backup-count` is greater than 0)

-   The entry is marked as dirty so that after `write-delay-seconds`, it can be persisted.

Same behavior goes for the `remove(key)` and `MapStore.delete(key)` methods. If `MapStore` throws an exception, then the exception will be propagated back to the original `put` or `remove` call in the form of `RuntimeException`. When write-through is used, Hazelcast will call `MapStore.store(key,value)` and `MapStore.delete(key)` for each entry update. When write-behind is used, Hazelcast will call`MapStore.store(map)`, and `MapStore.delete(collection)` to do all writes in a single call. Also, note that your MapStore or MapLoader implementation should not use Hazelcast Map/Queue/MultiMap/List/Set operations. Your implementation should only work with your data store. Otherwise, you may get into deadlock situations.

Here is a sample configuration:

```xml
<hazelcast>
  ...
  <map name="default">
    ...
    <map-store enabled="true">
      <!--
        Name of the class implementing MapLoader and/or MapStore.
        The class should implement at least of these interfaces and
        contain no-argument constructor. Note that the inner classes are not supported.
      -->
      <class-name>com.hazelcast.examples.DummyStore</class-name>
      <!--
        Number of seconds to delay to call the MapStore.store(key, value).
        If the value is zero then it is write-through so MapStore.store(key, value)
        will be called as soon as the entry is updated.
        Otherwise it is write-behind so updates will be stored after write-delay-seconds
        value by calling Hazelcast.storeAll(map). Default value is 0.
      -->
      <write-delay-seconds>0</write-delay-seconds>
    </map-store>
  </map>
</hazelcast>
```

As you know, a configuration can be applied to more than one map using wildcards (Please see [Wildcard Configuration](#wildcard-configuration)), meaning the configuration is shared among the maps. But, `MapStore` does not know which entries to be stored when there is one configuration applied to multiple maps. To overcome this, Hazelcast provides `MapStoreFactory` interface.

Using this factory, `MapStore`s for each map can be created, when a wildcard configuration is used. A sample code is given below.

```java
Config config = new Config();
MapConfig mapConfig = config.getMapConfig( "*" );
MapStoreConfig mapStoreConfig = mapConfig.getMapStoreConfig();
mapStoreConfig.setFactoryImplementation( new MapStoreFactory<Object, Object>() {
  @Override
  public MapLoader<Object, Object> newMapStore( String mapName, Properties properties ) {
    return null;
  }
});
```

Moreover, if the configuration implements `MapLoaderLifecycleSupport` interface, then the user will have the control to initialize the `MapLoader` implementation with the given map name, configuration properties and the Hazelcast instance. See the below code portion.

```java
public interface MapLoaderLifecycleSupport {

  /**
   * Initializes this MapLoader implementation. Hazelcast will call
   * this method when the map is first used on the
   * HazelcastInstance. Implementation can
   * initialize required resources for the implementing
   * mapLoader such as reading a config file and/or creating
   * database connection.
   */
  void init( HazelcastInstance hazelcastInstance, Properties properties, String mapName );

  /**
   * Hazelcast will call this method before shutting down.
   * This method can be overridden to cleanup the resources
   * held by this map loader implementation, such as closing the
   * database connections etc.
   */
  void destroy();
}
```


#### Initialization on startup

`MapLoader.loadAllKeys` API is used for pre-populating the in-memory map when the map is first touched/used. If `MapLoader.loadAllKeys` returns NULL then nothing will be loaded. Your `MapLoader.loadAllKeys` implementation can return all or some of the keys. You may select and return only the `hot` keys, for instance. Also note that this is the fastest way of pre-populating the map as Hazelcast will optimize the loading process by having each node loading owned portion of the entries.

Moreover, there is InitialLoadMode configuration parameter in the class [`MapStoreConfig`](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/blob/5f4f6a876e572f91431ad22f01ad5af9f5837f72/hazelcast/src/main/java/com/hazelcast/config/MapStoreConfig.java) class. This parameter has two values: LAZY and EAGER. If InitialLoadMode is set as LAZY, data is not loaded during the map creation. If it is set as EAGER, whole data is loaded while the map is being created and everything becomes ready to use. Also, if you add indices to your map by [`MapIndexConfig`](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/blob/da5cceee74e471e33f65f43f31d891c9741e31e3/hazelcast/src/main/java/com/hazelcast/config/MapIndexConfig.java) class or [`addIndex`](#indexing) method, then InitialLoadMode is overridden and MapStoreConfig behaves as if EAGER mode is on.

Here is MapLoader initialization flow:

1. When `getMap()` is first called from any node, initialization will start depending on the the value of InitialLoadMode. If it is set as EAGER, initialization starts.  If it is set as LAZY, initialization actually does not start but data is loaded at each time a partition loading is completed.
2. Hazelcast will call `MapLoader.loadAllKeys()` to get all your keys on each node
3. Each node will figure out the list of keys it owns
4. Each node will load all its owned keys by calling `MapLoader.loadAll(keys)`
5. Each node puts its owned entries into the map by calling `IMap.putTransient(key,value)`

***ATTENTION:*** *If the load mode is LAZY and when `clear()` method is called (which triggers `MapStore.deleteAll()`), Hazelcast will remove **ONLY** the loaded entries from your map and datastore. Since the whole data is not loaded for this case (LAZY mode), please note that there may be still entries in your datastore.*

#### Post Processing Map Store: ####

In some scenarios, you may need to modify the object after storing it into the map store.
For example, you can get ID or version auto generated by your database and you need to modify your object stored in distributed map, not to break the sync between database and data grid. You can do that by implementing `PostProcessingMapStore` interface;
so the modified object will be put to the distributed map. That will cause an extra step of `Serialization`, so use it just when needed (This explanation is only valid when using `write-through` map store configuration).

Here is an example of post processing map store:

```java
class ProcessingStore extends MapStore<Integer, Employee> implements PostProcessingMapStore {
  @Override
  public void store( Integer key, Employee employee ) {
    EmployeeId id = saveEmployee();
    employee.setId( id.getId() );
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Amend AwsConfig code example and add info on map eviction for dirty entries.

hazelcast-documentation/src/Map-Persistence.md, after:



### Map Persistence

Hazelcast allows you to load and store the distributed map entries from/to a persistent datastore such as relational database. If a loader implementation is provided, when `get(key)` is called, if the map entry does not exist in-memory, then Hazelcast will call your loader implementation to load the entry from a datastore. If a store implementation is provided, when `put(key,value)` is called, Hazelcast will call your store implementation to store the entry into a datastore. Hazelcast can call your implementation to store the entries synchronously (write-through) with no-delay or asynchronously (write-behind) with delay and it is defined by the `write-delay-seconds` value in the configuration.

If it is write-through, when the `map.put(key,value)` call returns, you can be sure that

-   `MapStore.store(key,value)` is successfully called so the entry is persisted.

-   In-Memory entry is updated

-   In-Memory backup copies are successfully created on other JVMs (if `backup-count` is greater than 0)

If it is write-behind, when the `map.put(key,value)` call returns, you can be sure that

-   In-Memory entry is updated

-   In-Memory backup copies are successfully created on other JVMs (if `backup-count` is greater than 0)

-   The entry is marked as dirty so that after `write-delay-seconds`, it can be persisted.

***ATTENTION:*** *If a map entry is marked as dirty, i.e. it is waiting to be persisted to the `MapStore` in a write-behind scenario, it will not be eligible for eviction*

Same behavior goes for the `remove(key)` and `MapStore.delete(key)` methods. If `MapStore` throws an exception, then the exception will be propagated back to the original `put` or `remove` call in the form of `RuntimeException`. When write-through is used, Hazelcast will call `MapStore.store(key,value)` and `MapStore.delete(key)` for each entry update. When write-behind is used, Hazelcast will call`MapStore.store(map)`, and `MapStore.delete(collection)` to do all writes in a single call. Also, note that your MapStore or MapLoader implementation should not use Hazelcast Map/Queue/MultiMap/List/Set operations. Your implementation should only work with your data store. Otherwise, you may get into deadlock situations.

Here is a sample configuration:

```xml
<hazelcast>
  ...
  <map name="default">
    ...
    <map-store enabled="true">
      <!--
        Name of the class implementing MapLoader and/or MapStore.
        The class should implement at least of these interfaces and
        contain no-argument constructor. Note that the inner classes are not supported.
      -->
      <class-name>com.hazelcast.examples.DummyStore</class-name>
      <!--
        Number of seconds to delay to call the MapStore.store(key, value).
        If the value is zero then it is write-through so MapStore.store(key, value)
        will be called as soon as the entry is updated.
        Otherwise it is write-behind so updates will be stored after write-delay-seconds
        value by calling Hazelcast.storeAll(map). Default value is 0.
      -->
      <write-delay-seconds>0</write-delay-seconds>
    </map-store>
  </map>
</hazelcast>
```

As you know, a configuration can be applied to more than one map using wildcards (Please see [Wildcard Configuration](#wildcard-configuration)), meaning the configuration is shared among the maps. But, `MapStore` does not know which entries to be stored when there is one configuration applied to multiple maps. To overcome this, Hazelcast provides `MapStoreFactory` interface.

Using this factory, `MapStore`s for each map can be created, when a wildcard configuration is used. A sample code is given below.

```java
Config config = new Config();
MapConfig mapConfig = config.getMapConfig( "*" );
MapStoreConfig mapStoreConfig = mapConfig.getMapStoreConfig();
mapStoreConfig.setFactoryImplementation( new MapStoreFactory<Object, Object>() {
  @Override
  public MapLoader<Object, Object> newMapStore( String mapName, Properties properties ) {
    return null;
  }
});
```

Moreover, if the configuration implements `MapLoaderLifecycleSupport` interface, then the user will have the control to initialize the `MapLoader` implementation with the given map name, configuration properties and the Hazelcast instance. See the below code portion.

```java
public interface MapLoaderLifecycleSupport {

  /**
   * Initializes this MapLoader implementation. Hazelcast will call
   * this method when the map is first used on the
   * HazelcastInstance. Implementation can
   * initialize required resources for the implementing
   * mapLoader such as reading a config file and/or creating
   * database connection.
   */
  void init( HazelcastInstance hazelcastInstance, Properties properties, String mapName );

  /**
   * Hazelcast will call this method before shutting down.
   * This method can be overridden to cleanup the resources
   * held by this map loader implementation, such as closing the
   * database connections etc.
   */
  void destroy();
}
```


#### Initialization on startup

`MapLoader.loadAllKeys` API is used for pre-populating the in-memory map when the map is first touched/used. If `MapLoader.loadAllKeys` returns NULL then nothing will be loaded. Your `MapLoader.loadAllKeys` implementation can return all or some of the keys. You may select and return only the `hot` keys, for instance. Also note that this is the fastest way of pre-populating the map as Hazelcast will optimize the loading process by having each node loading owned portion of the entries.

Moreover, there is InitialLoadMode configuration parameter in the class [`MapStoreConfig`](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/blob/5f4f6a876e572f91431ad22f01ad5af9f5837f72/hazelcast/src/main/java/com/hazelcast/config/MapStoreConfig.java) class. This parameter has two values: LAZY and EAGER. If InitialLoadMode is set as LAZY, data is not loaded during the map creation. If it is set as EAGER, whole data is loaded while the map is being created and everything becomes ready to use. Also, if you add indices to your map by [`MapIndexConfig`](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/blob/da5cceee74e471e33f65f43f31d891c9741e31e3/hazelcast/src/main/java/com/hazelcast/config/MapIndexConfig.java) class or [`addIndex`](#indexing) method, then InitialLoadMode is overridden and MapStoreConfig behaves as if EAGER mode is on.

Here is MapLoader initialization flow:

1. When `getMap()` is first called from any node, initialization will start depending on the the value of InitialLoadMode. If it is set as EAGER, initialization starts.  If it is set as LAZY, initialization actually does not start but data is loaded at each time a partition loading is completed.
2. Hazelcast will call `MapLoader.loadAllKeys()` to get all your keys on each node
3. Each node will figure out the list of keys it owns
4. Each node will load all its owned keys by calling `MapLoader.loadAll(keys)`
5. Each node puts its owned entries into the map by calling `IMap.putTransient(key,value)`

***ATTENTION:*** *If the load mode is LAZY and when `clear()` method is called (which triggers `MapStore.deleteAll()`), Hazelcast will remove **ONLY** the loaded entries from your map and datastore. Since the whole data is not loaded for this case (LAZY mode), please note that there may be still entries in your datastore.*

#### Post Processing Map Store: ####

In some scenarios, you may need to modify the object after storing it into the map store.
For example, you can get ID or version auto generated by your database and you need to modify your object stored in distributed map, not to break the sync between database and data grid. You can do that by implementing `PostProcessingMapStore` interface;
so the modified object will be put to the distributed map. That will cause an extra step of `Serialization`, so use it just when needed (This explanation is only valid when using `write-through` map store configuration).

Here is an example of post processing map store:

```java
class ProcessingStore extends MapStore<Integer, Employee> implements PostProcessingMapStore {
  @Override
  public void store( Integer key, Employee employee ) {
    EmployeeId id = saveEmployee();
    employee.setId( id.getId() );
  }
}
```
