hazelcast-documentation/src/TomcatSessionReplication.md, before:


### Tomcat Based Web Session Replication

![](images/enterprise-onlycopy.jpg)

***NOTE:*** *This feature is supported for Hazelcast Enterprise 3.3 or higher.*

#### Overview

Session Replication with Hazelcast Enterprise is a container specific module where no application change is required to enable session replication for JEE Web Applications. 

***Features***

1. Seamless Tomcat 6 & 7 integration
2. Support for sticky and non-sticky sessions
3. Tomcat failover
4. Deferred write for performance boost
<br></br>

***Supported Containers***

Tomcat Web Session Replication Module has been tested against following containers.

- Tomcat 6.0.x - It can be downloaded [here](http://tomcat.apache.org/download-60.cgi).
- Tomcat 7.0.x - It can be downloaded [here](http://tomcat.apache.org/download-70.cgi).

Latest tested versions are **6.0.39** and **7.0.40**.
<br></br>

***Requirements***

 - Tomcat instance must be running with Java 1.6 or higher.
 - Session objects that need to be clustered have to be Serializable.

#### P2P (Peer-to-Peer) Deployment

This launches embedded Hazelcast Node in each server instance.

***Features***

This type of deployment is the simplest approach. You can just configure your Tomcat and launch. There is no need for an  external Hazelcast cluster.

***Sample Configuration to use Hazelcast Session Replication***

- Go to [hazelcast.com](http://www.hazelcast.com/products/hazelcast-enterprise/) and download the latest Hazelcast Enterprise.
- Update `hazelcast.xml` with the provided Hazelcast Enterprise License Key. 
- Put `hazelcast-all-`<*version*>`-ee.jar`, `hazelcast-sessions-tomcat6-`<*version*>`.jar` and `hazelcast.xml` to the folder `$CATALINA_HOME/lib/`.

- Put `<Listener>` tag into the `$CATALINA_HOME$/conf/server.xml` as shown below.

 ```xml
<Server>
	...
    <Listener className="com.hazelcast.session.P2PLifecycleListener"/>
    ...
</Server>
```

- Put `<Manager>` tag into the `$CATALINA_HOME$/conf/context.xml` as shown below.

 ```xml
<Context>
	...
    <Manager className="com.hazelcast.session.HazelcastSessionManager"/>
    ...
</Context>
```

- Start Tomcat instances with a configured load balancer and deploy web application.

***Optional <Listener> Parameters***

- Add `configLocation` attribute into `<Listener>` tag. It is optional. If not provided, `hazelcast.xml` in the classpath is used by default. URL or full filesystem path as a `configLocation` value is also supported.

<br></br>

#### Client/Server Deployment

In this deployment type, Tomcat instances work as clients to an existing Hazelcast Cluster.

***Features***

-	Existing Hazelcast cluster is used as the Session Replication Cluster.
-	Offload Session Cache from Tomcat to Hazelcast Cluster.
-	The architecture is completely independent. Complete reboot of Tomcat instances.
<br></br>

***Sample Configuration to use Hazelcast Session Replication***

- Go to [hazelcast.com](http://www.hazelcast.com/products/hazelcast-enterprise/) and download the latest Hazelcast Enterprise.
- Unzip the Hazelcast Enteprise zip file into the folder `$HAZELCAST_ENTERPRISE_ROOT`.
- Put `$HAZELCAST_ENTERPRISE_ROOT/lib/hazelcast-client-`<*version*>`.jar` and `$HAZELCAST_ENTERPRISE_ROOT/lib/hazelcast-sessions-tomcat6-`<*version*>`.jar` to the folder `$CATALINA_HOME/lib/`.

- Update `<Manager>` tag in the `$CATALINA_HOME$/conf/context.xml` as shown below.

  ```xml
<Context>
     <Manager className="com.hazelcast.session.HazelcastSessionManager"
      clientOnly="true"/>
</Context>
```
- Launch a Hazelcast Instance using `$HAZELCAST_ENTERPRISE_ROOT/bin/server.sh` or `$HAZELCAST_ENTERPRISE_ROOT/bin/server.bat`.

- Start Tomcat instances with a configured load balancer and deploy web application.


#### Optional <Manager> Parameters

`<Manager>` tag is used both in P2P and Client/Server mode. Following parameters are used to configure Tomcat Session Replication Module to better serve your needs.

- Add `mapName` attribute into `<Manager>` tag. Its default value is *default Hazelcast Distributed Map*. Use this attribute if you have specially configured map for special cases like WAN Replication, Eviction, MapStore, etc.
- Add `sticky` attribute into `<Manager>` tag. Its default value is *true*.

<br></br>

#### Session Affinity 

***Sticky Sessions (default)***

Sticky Sessions are used to improve the performance since the sessions do not move around the cluster.
 
Request goes always to the same instance where the session was firstly created. By using a sticky session, you eliminate session replication problems mostly, except for the failover cases. In case of failovers, Hazelcast helps you not lose existing sessions.


***Non-Sticky Sessions***

Non-Sticky Sessions are not good for performance because you need to move session data all over the cluster every time a new request comes in.

However, load balancing might be super easy with Non-Sticky caches. In case of heavy load, you can distribute the request to the least used Tomcat instance. Hazelcast supports Non-Sticky Sessions as well. 

#### Session Caching

Tomcat Web Session Replication Module has its own nature of caching attribute changes during the HTTP Request/HTTP Response cycle. Each HTTP Request can change one or more HTTP Session attributes, and distributing those changes to the Hazelcast Cluster is costly. Because of that, Session Replication is only done at the end of each request for updated and deleted attributes. The risk in this approach is to lose data in case a Tomcat crash happens in the middle of HTTP Request operation.


<br></br>

Commit message:

small update on Tomcat Doc

hazelcast-documentation/src/TomcatSessionReplication.md, after:


### Tomcat Based Web Session Replication

![](images/enterprise-onlycopy.jpg)

***NOTE:*** *This feature is supported for Hazelcast Enterprise 3.3 or higher.*

#### Overview

Session Replication with Hazelcast Enterprise is a container specific module where no application change is required to enable session replication for JEE Web Applications. 

***Features***

1. Seamless Tomcat 6 & 7 integration
2. Support for sticky and non-sticky sessions
3. Tomcat failover
4. Deferred write for performance boost
<br></br>

***Supported Containers***

Tomcat Web Session Replication Module has been tested against following containers.

- Tomcat 6.0.x - It can be downloaded [here](http://tomcat.apache.org/download-60.cgi).
- Tomcat 7.0.x - It can be downloaded [here](http://tomcat.apache.org/download-70.cgi).

Latest tested versions are **6.0.39** and **7.0.40**.
<br></br>

***Requirements***

 - Tomcat instance must be running with Java 1.6 or higher.
 - Session objects that need to be clustered have to be Serializable.

#### P2P (Peer-to-Peer) Deployment

This launches embedded Hazelcast Node in each server instance.

***Features***

This type of deployment is the simplest approach. You can just configure your Tomcat and launch. There is no need for an  external Hazelcast cluster.

***Sample Configuration to use Hazelcast Session Replication***

- Go to [hazelcast.com](http://www.hazelcast.com/products/hazelcast-enterprise/) and download the latest Hazelcast Enterprise.
- Unzip the Hazelcast Enteprise zip file into the folder `$HAZELCAST_ENTERPRISE_ROOT`.
- Update `$HAZELCAST_ENTERPRISE_ROOT/bin/hazelcast.xml` with the provided Hazelcast Enterprise License Key. 
- Put `$HAZELCAST_ENTERPRISE_ROOT/lib/hazelcast-all-`<*version*>`-ee.jar`, `$HAZELCAST_ENTERPRISE_ROOT/lib/hazelcast-sessions-`<*version*>`.jar` and `hazelcast.xml` to the folder `$CATALINA_HOME/lib/`.

- Put `<Listener>` tag into the `$CATALINA_HOME$/conf/server.xml` as shown below.

 ```xml
<Server>
	...
    <Listener className="com.hazelcast.session.P2PLifecycleListener"/>
    ...
</Server>
```

- Put `<Manager>` tag into the `$CATALINA_HOME$/conf/context.xml` as shown below.

 ```xml
<Context>
	...
    <Manager className="com.hazelcast.session.HazelcastSessionManager"/>
    ...
</Context>
```

- Start Tomcat instances with a configured load balancer and deploy web application.

***Optional Listener Tag Parameters***

- Add `configLocation` attribute into `<Listener>` tag. It is optional. If not provided, `hazelcast.xml` in the classpath is used by default. URL or full filesystem path as a `configLocation` value is also supported.

<br></br>

#### Client/Server Deployment

In this deployment type, Tomcat instances work as clients to an existing Hazelcast Cluster.

***Features***

-	Existing Hazelcast cluster is used as the Session Replication Cluster.
-	Offload Session Cache from Tomcat to Hazelcast Cluster.
-	The architecture is completely independent. Complete reboot of Tomcat instances.
<br></br>

***Sample Configuration to use Hazelcast Session Replication***

- Go to [hazelcast.com](http://www.hazelcast.com/products/hazelcast-enterprise/) and download the latest Hazelcast Enterprise.
- Unzip the Hazelcast Enteprise zip file into the folder `$HAZELCAST_ENTERPRISE_ROOT`.
- Put `$HAZELCAST_ENTERPRISE_ROOT/lib/hazelcast-client-`<*version*>`.jar` and `$HAZELCAST_ENTERPRISE_ROOT/lib/hazelcast-sessions-`<*version*>`.jar` to the folder `$CATALINA_HOME/lib/`.

- Update `<Manager>` tag in the `$CATALINA_HOME$/conf/context.xml` as shown below.

  ```xml
<Context>
     <Manager className="com.hazelcast.session.HazelcastSessionManager"
      clientOnly="true"/>
</Context>
```
- Launch a Hazelcast Instance using `$HAZELCAST_ENTERPRISE_ROOT/bin/server.sh` or `$HAZELCAST_ENTERPRISE_ROOT/bin/server.bat`.

- Start Tomcat instances with a configured load balancer and deploy web application.


#### Optional Manager Tag Parameters

`<Manager>` tag is used both in P2P and Client/Server mode. Following parameters are used to configure Tomcat Session Replication Module to better serve your needs.

- Add `mapName` attribute into `<Manager>` tag. Its default value is *default Hazelcast Distributed Map*. Use this attribute if you have specially configured map for special cases like WAN Replication, Eviction, MapStore, etc.
- Add `sticky` attribute into `<Manager>` tag. Its default value is *true*.

<br></br>

#### Session Affinity 

***Sticky Sessions (default)***

Sticky Sessions are used to improve the performance since the sessions do not move around the cluster.
 
Request goes always to the same instance where the session was firstly created. By using a sticky session, you eliminate session replication problems mostly, except for the failover cases. In case of failovers, Hazelcast helps you not lose existing sessions.


***Non-Sticky Sessions***

Non-Sticky Sessions are not good for performance because you need to move session data all over the cluster every time a new request comes in.

However, load balancing might be super easy with Non-Sticky caches. In case of heavy load, you can distribute the request to the least used Tomcat instance. Hazelcast supports Non-Sticky Sessions as well. 

#### Session Caching

Tomcat Web Session Replication Module has its own nature of caching attribute changes during the HTTP Request/HTTP Response cycle. Each HTTP Request can change one or more HTTP Session attributes, and distributing those changes to the Hazelcast Cluster is costly. Because of that, Session Replication is only done at the end of each request for updated and deleted attributes. The risk in this approach is to lose data in case a Tomcat crash happens in the middle of HTTP Request operation.


<br></br>
