hazelcast-documentation/src/WebSessionReplication.md, before:


## Web Session Replication

If you are using Tomcat as your web container, please see our [Tomcat based Web Session Replication](#tomcat-based-web-session-replication).

### Filter Based Web Session Replication

Assume that you have more than one web servers (A, B, C) with a load balancer in front of them. If server A goes down, your users on that server will be directed to one of the live servers (B or C), but their sessions will be lost.

So we have to have all these sessions backed up somewhere if we do not want to lose the sessions upon server crashes. Hazelcast Web Manager (WM) allows you to cluster user HTTP sessions automatically. The following are required for enabling Hazelcast Session Clustering:

-   Target application or web server should support Java 1.6 or higher

-   Target application or web server should support Servlet 2.4 or higher spec

-   Session objects that need to be clustered have to be Serializable

Here are the steps to setup Hazelcast Session Clustering:

-	Put the `hazelcast` and `hazelcast-wm` jars in your `WEB-INF/lib` directory. Optionally, if you wish to connect to a cluster as a client, add `hazelcast-client` as well.

-	Put the following XML into `web.xml` file. Make sure Hazelcast filter is placed before all the other filters if any; put it at the top for example.

```xml             
<filter>
  <filter-name>hazelcast-filter</filter-name>
  <filter-class>com.hazelcast.web.WebFilter</filter-class>
  <!--
    Name of the distributed map storing
    your web session objects
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>map-name</param-name>
    <param-value>my-sessions</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    TTL value of the distributed map storing
    your web session objects.
    Any integer between 0 and Integer.MAX_VALUE.
    Default is 0 which is infinite.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>session-ttl-seconds</param-name>
    <param-value>0</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    How is your load-balancer configured?
    sticky-session means all requests of a session
    is routed to the node where the session is first created.
    This is excellent for performance.
    If sticky-session is set to false, when a session is updated
    on a node, entry for this session on all other nodes is invalidated.
    You have to know how your load-balancer is configured before
    setting this parameter. Default is true.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>sticky-session</param-name>
    <param-value>true</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Name of session id cookie
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>cookie-name</param-name>
    <param-value>hazelcast.sessionId</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Domain of session id cookie. Default is based on incoming request.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>cookie-domain</param-name>
    <param-value>.mywebsite.com</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Should cookie only be sent using a secure protocol? Default is false.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>cookie-secure</param-name>
    <param-value>false</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Should HttpOnly attribute be set on cookie ? Default is false.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>cookie-http-only</param-name>
    <param-value>false</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Are you debugging? Default is false.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>debug</param-name>
    <param-value>true</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Configuration xml location;
      * as servlet resource OR
      * as classpath resource OR
      * as URL
    Default is one of hazelcast-default.xml
    or hazelcast.xml in classpath.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>config-location</param-name>
    <param-value>/WEB-INF/hazelcast.xml</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Do you want to use an existing HazelcastInstance?
    Default is null.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>instance-name</param-name>
    <param-value>default</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Do you want to connect as a client to an existing cluster?
    Default is false.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>use-client</param-name>
    <param-value>false</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Client configuration location;
      * as servlet resource OR
      * as classpath resource OR
      * as URL
    Default is null.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>client-config-location</param-name>
    <param-value>/WEB-INF/hazelcast-client.properties</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Do you want to shutdown HazelcastInstance during
    web application undeploy process?
    Default is true.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>shutdown-on-destroy</param-name>
    <param-value>true</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Do you want to cache sessions locally in each instance?
    Default is false.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>deferred-write</param-name>
    <param-value>false</param-value>
  </init-param>
</filter>
<filter-mapping>
  <filter-name>hazelcast-filter</filter-name>
  <url-pattern>/*</url-pattern>
  <dispatcher>FORWARD</dispatcher>
  <dispatcher>INCLUDE</dispatcher>
  <dispatcher>REQUEST</dispatcher>
</filter-mapping>

<listener>
  <listener-class>com.hazelcast.web.SessionListener</listener-class>
</listener>
```

- If Spring based security is used for application, you should use `com.hazelcast.web.spring.SpringAwareWebFilter` instead of `com.hazelcast.web.WebFilter` in your filter definition.

```xml
...

<filter>
  <filter-name>hazelcast-filter</filter-name>
  <filter-class>com.hazelcast.web.spring.SpringAwareWebFilter</filter-class>
    ...
</filter> 

...
```

`SpringAwareWebFilter` makes Spring aware about Hazelcast based sessions by publishing events to Spring context and these events are used by `org.springframework.security.core.session.SessionRegistry` instance. 

As like before, you must also define `com.hazelcast.web.SessionListener` in your `web.xml`. However, it is not needed to define `org.springframework.security.web.session.HttpSessionEventPublisher` in your `web.xml` as before, since `SpringAwareWebFilter` already informs Spring about session based events like create or destroy. 

- Package and deploy your `war` file as you would normally do.

It is that easy. All HTTP requests will go through Hazelcast `WebFilter` and it will put the session objects into Hazelcast distributed map if needed.

#### Client Mode vs. P2P Mode

Hazelcast Session Replication works as P2P by default. You need to set `use-client` parameter to **true** to switch to Client/Server architecture. P2P mode is more flexible and requires no configuration in advance while in Client/Server architecture, clients need to connect to an existing Hazelcast Cluster. In case of connection problems, clients will try to reconnect to the cluster. Default retry count is 3.

#### Caching Locally with `deferred-write`

If the value for `deferred-write` is set as **true**, Hazelcast will cache the session locally and will update the local session on set or deletion of an attribute. Only at the end of request, it will update the distributed map with all the updates. So, it will not be updating the distributed map on each attribute update. It will only call it once at the end of request. It will be also caching it, i.e. whenever there is a read for the attribute, it will read it from the cache. 

**Important note about `deferred-write=false` setting**

If `deferred-write` is **false**, you will not have local attribute cache as mentioned above. In this case, any update (i.e. `setAttribute`) on the session will directly be available in the cluster. One exception to this behavior is the changes to the session attribute objects. To update an attribute clusterwide, `setAttribute` has to be called after making changes to the attribute object.

Following example explains how to update an attribute in the case of `deferred-write=false` setting: 

```
session.setAttribute("myKey", new ArrayList());
List list1 = session.getAttribute("myKey");
list1.add("myValue"); 
session.setAttribute("myKey", list1); // changes updated in the cluster
```

#### SessionId Generation

SessionId generation is done by Hazelcast Web Session Module if session replication is configured in the web application. Default cookie name for the sessionId is `hazelcast.sessionId` and this is configurable with `cookie-name` parameter in the `web.xml` file of the application.
`hazelcast.sessionId` is just a UUID prefixed with “HZ” character and without “-“ character, e.g. `HZ6F2D036789E4404893E99C05D8CA70C7`.

When called by the target application, the value of `HttpSession.getId()` is the same as the value of `hazelcast.sessionId`.

#### Session Expiry

Hazelcast automatically removes sessions from the cluster if session is expired on the Web Container. This removal is done by `com.hazelcast.web.SessionListener` which is an implementation of `javax.servlet.http.HttpSessionListener`. 

Default session expiration configuration depends on Servlet Container that is being used. You can also define it in your web.xml.

```xml
    <session-config>
        <session-timeout>60</session-timeout>
    </session-config>
```

If you want to override session expiry configuration with Hazelcast specific configuration, `session-ttl-seconds` can be used to specify TTL on Hazelcast Session Replication Distributed Map.

#### sticky-session

Hazelcast holds whole session attributes in a distributed map and in local HTTP session. Local session is required for fast access to data and distributed map is needed for fail-safety.

- If `sticky-session` is not used, whenever a session attribute is updated in a node (in both node local session and clustered cache), that attribute should be invalidated in all other nodes' local sessions, because now they have dirty value. So, when a request arrives to one of those other nodes, that attribute value is fetched from clustered cache.

- To overcome performance penalty of sending invalidation messages during updates, sticky sessions can be used. If Hazelcast knows sessions are sticky, invalidation will not be sent, because Hazelcast assumes there is no other local session at the moment. When a server is down, requests belonging to a session hold in that server will routed to other one and that server will fetch session data from clustered cache. That means, using sticky sessions, one will not suffer performance penalty of accessing clustered data and can benefit recover from a server failure.



<br></br>

Commit message:

sample code integration into documentation

hazelcast-documentation/src/WebSessionReplication.md, after:


## Web Session Replication

If you are using Tomcat as your web container, please see our [Tomcat based Web Session Replication](#tomcat-based-web-session-replication).

### Sample Code

please see our sample application for [Filter Based Web Session Replication](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-code-samples/tree/master/hazelcast-integration/filter-based-session-replication)

### Filter Based Web Session Replication

Assume that you have more than one web servers (A, B, C) with a load balancer in front of them. If server A goes down, your users on that server will be directed to one of the live servers (B or C), but their sessions will be lost.

So we have to have all these sessions backed up somewhere if we do not want to lose the sessions upon server crashes. Hazelcast Web Manager (WM) allows you to cluster user HTTP sessions automatically. The following are required for enabling Hazelcast Session Clustering:

-   Target application or web server should support Java 1.6 or higher

-   Target application or web server should support Servlet 2.4 or higher spec

-   Session objects that need to be clustered have to be Serializable

Here are the steps to setup Hazelcast Session Clustering:

-	Put the `hazelcast` and `hazelcast-wm` jars in your `WEB-INF/lib` directory. Optionally, if you wish to connect to a cluster as a client, add `hazelcast-client` as well.

-	Put the following XML into `web.xml` file. Make sure Hazelcast filter is placed before all the other filters if any; put it at the top for example.

```xml             
<filter>
  <filter-name>hazelcast-filter</filter-name>
  <filter-class>com.hazelcast.web.WebFilter</filter-class>
  <!--
    Name of the distributed map storing
    your web session objects
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>map-name</param-name>
    <param-value>my-sessions</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    TTL value of the distributed map storing
    your web session objects.
    Any integer between 0 and Integer.MAX_VALUE.
    Default is 0 which is infinite.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>session-ttl-seconds</param-name>
    <param-value>0</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    How is your load-balancer configured?
    sticky-session means all requests of a session
    is routed to the node where the session is first created.
    This is excellent for performance.
    If sticky-session is set to false, when a session is updated
    on a node, entry for this session on all other nodes is invalidated.
    You have to know how your load-balancer is configured before
    setting this parameter. Default is true.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>sticky-session</param-name>
    <param-value>true</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Name of session id cookie
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>cookie-name</param-name>
    <param-value>hazelcast.sessionId</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Domain of session id cookie. Default is based on incoming request.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>cookie-domain</param-name>
    <param-value>.mywebsite.com</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Should cookie only be sent using a secure protocol? Default is false.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>cookie-secure</param-name>
    <param-value>false</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Should HttpOnly attribute be set on cookie ? Default is false.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>cookie-http-only</param-name>
    <param-value>false</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Are you debugging? Default is false.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>debug</param-name>
    <param-value>true</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Configuration xml location;
      * as servlet resource OR
      * as classpath resource OR
      * as URL
    Default is one of hazelcast-default.xml
    or hazelcast.xml in classpath.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>config-location</param-name>
    <param-value>/WEB-INF/hazelcast.xml</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Do you want to use an existing HazelcastInstance?
    Default is null.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>instance-name</param-name>
    <param-value>default</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Do you want to connect as a client to an existing cluster?
    Default is false.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>use-client</param-name>
    <param-value>false</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Client configuration location;
      * as servlet resource OR
      * as classpath resource OR
      * as URL
    Default is null.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>client-config-location</param-name>
    <param-value>/WEB-INF/hazelcast-client.properties</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Do you want to shutdown HazelcastInstance during
    web application undeploy process?
    Default is true.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>shutdown-on-destroy</param-name>
    <param-value>true</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Do you want to cache sessions locally in each instance?
    Default is false.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>deferred-write</param-name>
    <param-value>false</param-value>
  </init-param>
</filter>
<filter-mapping>
  <filter-name>hazelcast-filter</filter-name>
  <url-pattern>/*</url-pattern>
  <dispatcher>FORWARD</dispatcher>
  <dispatcher>INCLUDE</dispatcher>
  <dispatcher>REQUEST</dispatcher>
</filter-mapping>

<listener>
  <listener-class>com.hazelcast.web.SessionListener</listener-class>
</listener>
```

- Package and deploy your `war` file as you would normally do.

It is that easy. All HTTP requests will go through Hazelcast `WebFilter` and it will put the session objects into Hazelcast distributed map if needed.

### Spring Security Support

please see our sample application for [Spring Security Support](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-code-samples/tree/master/hazelcast-integration/spring-security)

If Spring based security is used for application, you should use `com.hazelcast.web.spring.SpringAwareWebFilter` instead of `com.hazelcast.web.WebFilter` in your filter definition.

```xml
...

<filter>
  <filter-name>hazelcast-filter</filter-name>
  <filter-class>com.hazelcast.web.spring.SpringAwareWebFilter</filter-class>
    ...
</filter> 

...
```

`SpringAwareWebFilter` notifies Spring by publishing events to Spring context and these events are used by `org.springframework.security.core.session.SessionRegistry` instance. 

As like before, you must also define `com.hazelcast.web.SessionListener` in your `web.xml`. However, it is not needed to define `org.springframework.security.web.session.HttpSessionEventPublisher` in your `web.xml` as before, since `SpringAwareWebFilter` already informs Spring about session based events like create or destroy. 




#### Client Mode vs. P2P Mode

Hazelcast Session Replication works as P2P by default. You need to set `use-client` parameter to **true** to switch to Client/Server architecture. P2P mode is more flexible and requires no configuration in advance while in Client/Server architecture, clients need to connect to an existing Hazelcast Cluster. In case of connection problems, clients will try to reconnect to the cluster. Default retry count is 3.

#### Caching Locally with `deferred-write`

If the value for `deferred-write` is set as **true**, Hazelcast will cache the session locally and will update the local session on set or deletion of an attribute. Only at the end of request, it will update the distributed map with all the updates. So, it will not be updating the distributed map on each attribute update. It will only call it once at the end of request. It will be also caching it, i.e. whenever there is a read for the attribute, it will read it from the cache. 

**Important note about `deferred-write=false` setting**

If `deferred-write` is **false**, you will not have local attribute cache as mentioned above. In this case, any update (i.e. `setAttribute`) on the session will directly be available in the cluster. One exception to this behavior is the changes to the session attribute objects. To update an attribute clusterwide, `setAttribute` has to be called after making changes to the attribute object.

Following example explains how to update an attribute in the case of `deferred-write=false` setting: 

```
session.setAttribute("myKey", new ArrayList());
List list1 = session.getAttribute("myKey");
list1.add("myValue"); 
session.setAttribute("myKey", list1); // changes updated in the cluster
```

#### SessionId Generation

SessionId generation is done by Hazelcast Web Session Module if session replication is configured in the web application. Default cookie name for the sessionId is `hazelcast.sessionId` and this is configurable with `cookie-name` parameter in the `web.xml` file of the application.
`hazelcast.sessionId` is just a UUID prefixed with “HZ” character and without “-“ character, e.g. `HZ6F2D036789E4404893E99C05D8CA70C7`.

When called by the target application, the value of `HttpSession.getId()` is the same as the value of `hazelcast.sessionId`.

#### Session Expiry

Hazelcast automatically removes sessions from the cluster if session is expired on the Web Container. This removal is done by `com.hazelcast.web.SessionListener` which is an implementation of `javax.servlet.http.HttpSessionListener`. 

Default session expiration configuration depends on Servlet Container that is being used. You can also define it in your web.xml.

```xml
    <session-config>
        <session-timeout>60</session-timeout>
    </session-config>
```

If you want to override session expiry configuration with Hazelcast specific configuration, `session-ttl-seconds` can be used to specify TTL on Hazelcast Session Replication Distributed Map.

#### sticky-session

Hazelcast holds whole session attributes in a distributed map and in local HTTP session. Local session is required for fast access to data and distributed map is needed for fail-safety.

- If `sticky-session` is not used, whenever a session attribute is updated in a node (in both node local session and clustered cache), that attribute should be invalidated in all other nodes' local sessions, because now they have dirty value. So, when a request arrives to one of those other nodes, that attribute value is fetched from clustered cache.

- To overcome performance penalty of sending invalidation messages during updates, sticky sessions can be used. If Hazelcast knows sessions are sticky, invalidation will not be sent, because Hazelcast assumes there is no other local session at the moment. When a server is down, requests belonging to a session hold in that server will routed to other one and that server will fetch session data from clustered cache. That means, using sticky sessions, one will not suffer performance penalty of accessing clustered data and can benefit recover from a server failure.



<br></br>
