hazelcast-documentation/src/WhatsNewFixes.md, before:


### Fixes

**3.3.2 Fixes**

This section lists issues solved for **Hazelcast 3.3.2** release.


- Reject multicast messages if the group configuration is not matching [[#3806]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3806).
- `Map#getEntryView` should check expiration of a key [[#3801]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3801).
- Hazelcast gets stuck in `HazelcastInstanceNotActiveException` loop during multicast join [[#3732]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3732).
- Hazelcast fails to comply with `maxIdleTime` expiration when running EntryProcessors. A delay should be added to expiration times on backups [[#3710]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3710).
- `containsKey()` in transactional context returns wrong value for keys deleted within transaction [[#3682]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3682).
- `TransactionalMap.values()` returns stale values that was updated within the transaction boundary [[#3668]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3668).
- Number of loaded keys should not exceed map's maximum size [[#3608]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3608).
- During client node shutdown, if the cluster happens to be down, Hazelcast logs some extra messages at SEVERE level [[#3493]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3493).



**3.3.1 Fixes**

This section lists issues solved for **Hazelcast 3.3.1** release.


- MapReduce Combiner creation is not threadsafe, but certain operations on mapping phase might need a concurrent creation of the combiners [[#3625]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3625).
- When `connectionTimeout` property in ClientNetworkConfig is set to `Integer.MAX_VALUE`, the client could not connect to cluster since a default 2000 ms. extra value is added to `connectionTimeout` while connecting [[#3615]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3615).
- User provided list results from combiner is colliding with the internally used multi-result list [[#3614]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3614).
- While committing collection transactions, the collection item is being added to the collection container. However, this gives the warning "There is no suitable de-serializer for type" warning. Instead of collection item, transactional item should be added to the container [[#3603]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3603).
- `MaxSizeConfig` constructor should convert zero size to `Integer.MAX_VALUE` [[#3579]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3579).
- If deserialization of the client request fails, the exception is not propagated back to the client  [[#3557]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3557).
- "Lock is not owned by by the transaction" exception. This exception was received while testing how transactions are working with Map and MultiMap for some last Hazelcast releases [[#3545]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3545).
- Main classes in `manifest.mf` files are not correctly set [#3537](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3537).
- Count of evicted events may exceed the map size when "read backup data" feature is enabled [#3515](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3515).
- `mancenter.war` from Hazelcast release 3.2.5 cannot be deployed to Glassfish 3.1.2.2 and it fails to deploy [#3501](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3501).
- While evicting entries from a map with the method `evictAll`, locked keys should stay in the map [#3473](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3473).
- In `hazelcast-vm` module, before every test, new server container is started. And after every test, running server is terminated. This behavior causes a long test execution time. Server start-up and termination should be done before and after test class initialization and finalization [#3473](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3473).
- The method `IQueue.take()` method should throw InterruptedException, but throws HazelcastException instead [#3133](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3133).
- Multicast discovery doesn't work without network [#2594](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2594).



**3.3 Fixes**

This section lists issues solved for **Hazelcast 3.3** release.

- TxQueue cannot find reserved items upon ownership changes [[#3432]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3432).
- Documentation update is needed to tell that PagingPredicate is only supported for Comparable objects if there is no comparator [[#3428]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3432).
- `java.lang.NullPointerException` is thrown when publishing an event in ClientEndPointImpl [[#3407]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3407).
- The `entryUpdated()` callback of a listener during a transaction always has a null `oldValue` in the EntryEvent [[#3406]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3406).
- Documentation update with the links to code samples for integration modules [[#3389]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3389).
- Hazelcast write-behind with `map.replace()` stores replaced items [[#3386]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3386).
- XAResource's `setTransactionTimeout()` method is not correctly implemented [[#3384]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3384).
- Hazelcast web session replication filter may die if response committed [[#3360]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3360).
- Resource adapter state is never reset to `isStarted == false`, resulting in errors down the line [[#3350]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3350).
- `PagingPredicate.getAnchor` does not return the correct value [[#3241]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3241).
- If deserialization fails, calling node is not informed [[#2509]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2509).
- CallerNotMemberException and WrongTargetException exceptions are thrown at random intervals [[#2253]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2253).

**RC3 Fixes**

This section lists issues solved for **Hazelcast 3.3-RC3** release.


- Parallel execution of `MapStore#store` method for the same key triggered by `IMap#flush` [[#3338]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3338).
- When offering null argument in queue throws an exception but it adds null argument to collection, then `addAll()` performed on this list does not throw an exception [[#3330]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3330).
- `java.io.FileNotFoundException` thrown by MapLoaderTest [[#3324]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3324).
- MapMaxSizeTest Stabilizer test with SoftKill [[#3291]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3291).
- Incompatible Spring and Hazelcast configuration XSDs [[#3275]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3275).
- `ExpirationManager` partition sorting can fail [[#3271]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3271).
- Configuration validation is broken [[#3257]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3257).
- Code Samples for Spring Security and WebFilter Integration [[#3252]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3252).
- WebFilter Test Cases are slow [[#3250]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3250).
- Management Center and Weblogic Deployment Problem [[#3247]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3247).
- Enabling Multicast and TCP/IP node discovery methods freeze the instances [[#3246]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3246).
- `getOldValue` and `getValue` returns the same value when removing item from IMap [[#3198]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3198).
- MapTransactionContextTest: member SoftKill and then HazelcastSerializationException and IegalStateException: Nested are thrown [[#3196]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3196).
- `IMap.delete()` should not call `MapLoader.load()`[[#3178]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3178).
- 3.3-RC3+: NPE in the method `connectionMarkedAsNotResponsive` [[#3169]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3169).
- `WebFilter.HazelcastHttpSession.isNew()` does not check the Hazelcast Session Cache [[#3132]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3132).
- Hazelcast Spring XSD files are not version agnostic [[#3131]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3131).
- `ClassCastException: java.lang.Integer` cannot be cast to `java.lang.String` Query [[#3091]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3091).
- Predicate returns a value not matching the predicate [[#3090]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3090).
- Modifications made by Entry Processor are lost in 3.3-RC-2 [[#3062]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3062).
- Hazelcast Session Clustering with Spring Security Problem [[#3049]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3049).
- PagingPredicate returning duplicated elements results in an infinite loop [[#3047]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3047).
- `expirationTime` on EntryView is not set [[#3038]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3038).
- `BasicRecordStoreLoader` cannot handle retry responses [[#3033]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3033). 
- Short `await()` on condition of contended lock causes IllegalStateException [[#3025]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3025). 
- Indices and Comparable<T>: not documented [[#3024]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3024). 
- Marking Heartbeat as healthy is too late [[#3014]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3014).
- 3.3-RC2: `IMap#keySet` triggers value deserialization [[#3008]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3008).
- `map.destroy()` throws DistributedObjectDestroyedException [[#3001]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3001).
- Stabilizer tests Final profile, Xlarge cluster OperationTimeoutException [[#2999]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2999).
- `com.hazelcast.jca.HazelcastConnection::getExecutorService` returns plain ExecutorService [[#2986]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2986).
- Serialization NPE in MapStoreTest stabilizer, 3.3-RC3-SNAPSHOT [[#2985]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2985).
- Bug with `IMap.getAll()` [[#2982]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2982).
- Client deadlock on single core machines [[#2971]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2971).
- Retrieve number of futures in loop in calling thread [[#2964]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2964).


**RC2 Fixes**

This section lists issues solved for **Hazelcast 3.3-RC2** release.

-	`evictAll` should flush to staging area [#2969](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2969).
-	NPE exception in MapStoreTest [[#2956]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2956).
-	Fixed `AddSessionEntryProcessor` [[#2955]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2955).
-   Added `StripedExecutor` to WanReplicationService [[#2947]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2947).
-	All read operations of map should respect expired keys [[#2946]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2946).
-  Fix test EvictionTest#testMapWideEviction [[#2944]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2944).
-   Heartbeat check of clients from nodes [[#2936]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2936).
-	WebFilter does not clean up timed-	out sessions [[#2930]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2930).
-	Fix leaking empty concurrent hashmaps [[#2929]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2929).
-	Data loss fix in `hazelcast-wm` module [[#2927]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2927).
-	Configured event queue capacity [[#2924]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2924).
-	Client closes owner connection when a connection to the same address is closed [[#2921]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2921).
-	Close the owner connection if heartbeat timeout when client is smart [[#2916]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2916).
-	Set application buffer size to not exceed `tls` record size [[#2914]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2914).
-	EntryProcessor makes unnecessary serialization [[#2913]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2913).
-	Make evictable time window configurable [[#2910]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2910).
-	Fixes data loss issue when partition table is being synced and a node is gracefully shutdown [[#2908]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2908).
-	MapStoreConfig; implementation instance is not set, when configured via XML [[#2898]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2898).
-	LocalMapStats does not record stats about locked entries in 3.x [[#2876]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2876).
-	Concurrency security interceptor [[#2874]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2874).
-	Client hangs during split, if split occurs due to network error [[#2850]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2850).
-	Network connection loss does not release lock [[#2818]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2818).


**RC1 Fixes**

This section lists issues solved for **Hazelcast 3.3-RC1** release.

-	It is not possible to copy the link from [http://hazelcast.org/download/](http://hazelcast.org/download/) and run `wget` on it [[#2814]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2814).
-	`mapCleared` method for EntryListener is needed [[#2789]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2789).
-	The method `keySet` with predicate should trigger loading of MapStore [[#2692]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2692).
-	MapStore with write-behind: The method `IMap.remove()` followed by `IMap.putIfAbsent(key,value)` still returns the old value [[#2685]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2685).
-	Hazelcast cannot read UTF-8 String if "multiple-byte" characters end up at position that is an even multiple of buffer size [[#2674]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2674).
-	Current implementation of record expiration relies on undefined behavior of `System.nanoTime()` [[#2666]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2666).
-	Inconsistency at Hazelcast Bootup "Editions" message [[#2641]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2641).
-	`AbstractReachabilityHandler` writes to standard output [[#2591]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2591).
-	`IMap.set()` does not not remove a key from write behind deletions queue [[#2588]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2588).
-	`com.hazelcast.core.EntryView#getLastAccessTime` is invalid[[#2581]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2581).

Commit message:

Revision History and Release Notes updated.

hazelcast-documentation/src/WhatsNewFixes.md, after:


### Fixes

**3.3.3 Fixes**

This section lists issues solved for **Hazelcast 3.3.3** release.


- JCache average put time statistics are not calculated correctly [[#4029]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/4029).
- A null pointer exception may be thrown during the execution of an entry backup processor, due to an unsent previous backup operation [[#4001]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/4001).
- The evicted event is sent before the added event to an EntryListener on a DistributedObject [[#3992]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3992).
- The default login credentials for management center cannot be deleted after custom credentials are created [[#3990]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3990).
- The logger for `NodeMulticastListener` does not belong to `com.hazelcast` hierarchy [[#3941]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3941).
- When a `MapInterceptor` is added on a running Hazelcast node (in embedded mode) and that node is stopped, then the interceptor is not removed. When the same node is started again, the effect of the interceptor is applied twice [[#3932]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3932).
- If a MapInterceptor is added to a map during node initialization and then the same code is run on another nodes, same behavior is duplicated when the MapInterceptor is invoked [[#3931]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3931).
- In Hazelcast 3.3.x, expiration time is calculated as the sum of creation time and TTL. Its value is updated on every set operation on a map, but Hazelcast uses only the first value set for `ExpirationTime`. So a `getExpirationTime()` operation returns a wrong and misleading value [[#3923]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3923).
- When using declarative configuration to configure a queue to use a `QueueStoreFactory`, a null pointer exception is thrown at `QueueStoreWrapper`. This is because `setConfig` calls `factoryImpl(name)` before `this.storeConfig` setting. This means that `storeConfig` will always be null when `factoryImpl(name)` is running. [[#3907]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3907).
- Excessive number of logs during the startup of Hazelcast [[#3869]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3869).
- `LifecycleService` should be terminated after the node could not join to the cluster [[#3843]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3843).
- The method `MapProxyImpl.aggregate` hangs sporadically [[#3824]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3824).
- Currently, there is no class named `com.hazelcast.nio.utf8.EnterpriseStringCreator` in both Hazelcast and Hazelcast Enterprise. The class and its log message should be removed from the code [[#3819]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3819).
- When monitoring Hazelcast using management center, the map list is unreadable and also unexpandable for maps with long names [[#3815]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3815).
- Management center queues the "Shutdown" commands [[#3718]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3718).
- E-mail notifications for management center are not sent [[#3693]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3693).
- EC2 instance discovery failure with Hazelcast 3.3 [[#3666]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3666).


**3.3.2 Fixes**

This section lists issues solved for **Hazelcast 3.3.2** release.


- Reject multicast messages if the group configuration is not matching [[#3806]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3806).
- `Map#getEntryView` should check expiration of a key [[#3801]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3801).
- Hazelcast gets stuck in `HazelcastInstanceNotActiveException` loop during multicast join [[#3732]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3732).
- Hazelcast fails to comply with `maxIdleTime` expiration when running EntryProcessors. A delay should be added to expiration times on backups [[#3710]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3710).
- `containsKey()` in transactional context returns wrong value for keys deleted within transaction [[#3682]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3682).
- `TransactionalMap.values()` returns stale values that was updated within the transaction boundary [[#3668]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3668).
- Number of loaded keys should not exceed map's maximum size [[#3608]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3608).
- During client node shutdown, if the cluster happens to be down, Hazelcast logs some extra messages at SEVERE level [[#3493]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3493).



**3.3.1 Fixes**

This section lists issues solved for **Hazelcast 3.3.1** release.


- MapReduce Combiner creation is not threadsafe, but certain operations on mapping phase might need a concurrent creation of the combiners [[#3625]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3625).
- When `connectionTimeout` property in ClientNetworkConfig is set to `Integer.MAX_VALUE`, the client could not connect to cluster since a default 2000 ms. extra value is added to `connectionTimeout` while connecting [[#3615]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3615).
- User provided list results from combiner is colliding with the internally used multi-result list [[#3614]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3614).
- While committing collection transactions, the collection item is being added to the collection container. However, this gives the warning "There is no suitable de-serializer for type" warning. Instead of collection item, transactional item should be added to the container [[#3603]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3603).
- `MaxSizeConfig` constructor should convert zero size to `Integer.MAX_VALUE` [[#3579]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3579).
- If deserialization of the client request fails, the exception is not propagated back to the client  [[#3557]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3557).
- "Lock is not owned by by the transaction" exception. This exception was received while testing how transactions are working with Map and MultiMap for some last Hazelcast releases [[#3545]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3545).
- Main classes in `manifest.mf` files are not correctly set [#3537](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3537).
- Count of evicted events may exceed the map size when "read backup data" feature is enabled [#3515](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3515).
- `mancenter.war` from Hazelcast release 3.2.5 cannot be deployed to Glassfish 3.1.2.2 and it fails to deploy [#3501](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3501).
- While evicting entries from a map with the method `evictAll`, locked keys should stay in the map [#3473](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3473).
- In `hazelcast-vm` module, before every test, new server container is started. And after every test, running server is terminated. This behavior causes a long test execution time. Server start-up and termination should be done before and after test class initialization and finalization [#3473](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3473).
- The method `IQueue.take()` method should throw InterruptedException, but throws HazelcastException instead [#3133](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3133).
- Multicast discovery doesn't work without network [#2594](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2594).



**3.3 Fixes**

This section lists issues solved for **Hazelcast 3.3** release.

- TxQueue cannot find reserved items upon ownership changes [[#3432]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3432).
- Documentation update is needed to tell that PagingPredicate is only supported for Comparable objects if there is no comparator [[#3428]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3432).
- `java.lang.NullPointerException` is thrown when publishing an event in ClientEndPointImpl [[#3407]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3407).
- The `entryUpdated()` callback of a listener during a transaction always has a null `oldValue` in the EntryEvent [[#3406]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3406).
- Documentation update with the links to code samples for integration modules [[#3389]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3389).
- Hazelcast write-behind with `map.replace()` stores replaced items [[#3386]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3386).
- XAResource's `setTransactionTimeout()` method is not correctly implemented [[#3384]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3384).
- Hazelcast web session replication filter may die if response committed [[#3360]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3360).
- Resource adapter state is never reset to `isStarted == false`, resulting in errors down the line [[#3350]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3350).
- `PagingPredicate.getAnchor` does not return the correct value [[#3241]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3241).
- If deserialization fails, calling node is not informed [[#2509]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2509).
- CallerNotMemberException and WrongTargetException exceptions are thrown at random intervals [[#2253]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2253).

**RC3 Fixes**

This section lists issues solved for **Hazelcast 3.3-RC3** release.


- Parallel execution of `MapStore#store` method for the same key triggered by `IMap#flush` [[#3338]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3338).
- When offering null argument in queue throws an exception but it adds null argument to collection, then `addAll()` performed on this list does not throw an exception [[#3330]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3330).
- `java.io.FileNotFoundException` thrown by MapLoaderTest [[#3324]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3324).
- MapMaxSizeTest Stabilizer test with SoftKill [[#3291]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3291).
- Incompatible Spring and Hazelcast configuration XSDs [[#3275]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3275).
- `ExpirationManager` partition sorting can fail [[#3271]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3271).
- Configuration validation is broken [[#3257]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3257).
- Code Samples for Spring Security and WebFilter Integration [[#3252]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3252).
- WebFilter Test Cases are slow [[#3250]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3250).
- Management Center and Weblogic Deployment Problem [[#3247]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3247).
- Enabling Multicast and TCP/IP node discovery methods freeze the instances [[#3246]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3246).
- `getOldValue` and `getValue` returns the same value when removing item from IMap [[#3198]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3198).
- MapTransactionContextTest: member SoftKill and then HazelcastSerializationException and IegalStateException: Nested are thrown [[#3196]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3196).
- `IMap.delete()` should not call `MapLoader.load()`[[#3178]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3178).
- 3.3-RC3+: NPE in the method `connectionMarkedAsNotResponsive` [[#3169]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3169).
- `WebFilter.HazelcastHttpSession.isNew()` does not check the Hazelcast Session Cache [[#3132]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3132).
- Hazelcast Spring XSD files are not version agnostic [[#3131]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3131).
- `ClassCastException: java.lang.Integer` cannot be cast to `java.lang.String` Query [[#3091]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3091).
- Predicate returns a value not matching the predicate [[#3090]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3090).
- Modifications made by Entry Processor are lost in 3.3-RC-2 [[#3062]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3062).
- Hazelcast Session Clustering with Spring Security Problem [[#3049]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3049).
- PagingPredicate returning duplicated elements results in an infinite loop [[#3047]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3047).
- `expirationTime` on EntryView is not set [[#3038]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3038).
- `BasicRecordStoreLoader` cannot handle retry responses [[#3033]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3033). 
- Short `await()` on condition of contended lock causes IllegalStateException [[#3025]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3025). 
- Indices and Comparable<T>: not documented [[#3024]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3024). 
- Marking Heartbeat as healthy is too late [[#3014]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3014).
- 3.3-RC2: `IMap#keySet` triggers value deserialization [[#3008]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3008).
- `map.destroy()` throws DistributedObjectDestroyedException [[#3001]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/3001).
- Stabilizer tests Final profile, Xlarge cluster OperationTimeoutException [[#2999]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2999).
- `com.hazelcast.jca.HazelcastConnection::getExecutorService` returns plain ExecutorService [[#2986]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2986).
- Serialization NPE in MapStoreTest stabilizer, 3.3-RC3-SNAPSHOT [[#2985]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2985).
- Bug with `IMap.getAll()` [[#2982]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2982).
- Client deadlock on single core machines [[#2971]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2971).
- Retrieve number of futures in loop in calling thread [[#2964]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2964).


**RC2 Fixes**

This section lists issues solved for **Hazelcast 3.3-RC2** release.

-	`evictAll` should flush to staging area [#2969](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2969).
-	NPE exception in MapStoreTest [[#2956]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2956).
-	Fixed `AddSessionEntryProcessor` [[#2955]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2955).
-   Added `StripedExecutor` to WanReplicationService [[#2947]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2947).
-	All read operations of map should respect expired keys [[#2946]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2946).
-  Fix test EvictionTest#testMapWideEviction [[#2944]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2944).
-   Heartbeat check of clients from nodes [[#2936]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2936).
-	WebFilter does not clean up timed-	out sessions [[#2930]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2930).
-	Fix leaking empty concurrent hashmaps [[#2929]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2929).
-	Data loss fix in `hazelcast-wm` module [[#2927]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2927).
-	Configured event queue capacity [[#2924]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2924).
-	Client closes owner connection when a connection to the same address is closed [[#2921]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2921).
-	Close the owner connection if heartbeat timeout when client is smart [[#2916]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2916).
-	Set application buffer size to not exceed `tls` record size [[#2914]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2914).
-	EntryProcessor makes unnecessary serialization [[#2913]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2913).
-	Make evictable time window configurable [[#2910]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2910).
-	Fixes data loss issue when partition table is being synced and a node is gracefully shutdown [[#2908]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2908).
-	MapStoreConfig; implementation instance is not set, when configured via XML [[#2898]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2898).
-	LocalMapStats does not record stats about locked entries in 3.x [[#2876]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2876).
-	Concurrency security interceptor [[#2874]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2874).
-	Client hangs during split, if split occurs due to network error [[#2850]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2850).
-	Network connection loss does not release lock [[#2818]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2818).


**RC1 Fixes**

This section lists issues solved for **Hazelcast 3.3-RC1** release.

-	It is not possible to copy the link from [http://hazelcast.org/download/](http://hazelcast.org/download/) and run `wget` on it [[#2814]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2814).
-	`mapCleared` method for EntryListener is needed [[#2789]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2789).
-	The method `keySet` with predicate should trigger loading of MapStore [[#2692]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2692).
-	MapStore with write-behind: The method `IMap.remove()` followed by `IMap.putIfAbsent(key,value)` still returns the old value [[#2685]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2685).
-	Hazelcast cannot read UTF-8 String if "multiple-byte" characters end up at position that is an even multiple of buffer size [[#2674]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2674).
-	Current implementation of record expiration relies on undefined behavior of `System.nanoTime()` [[#2666]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2666).
-	Inconsistency at Hazelcast Bootup "Editions" message [[#2641]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2641).
-	`AbstractReachabilityHandler` writes to standard output [[#2591]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2591).
-	`IMap.set()` does not not remove a key from write behind deletions queue [[#2588]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2588).
-	`com.hazelcast.core.EntryView#getLastAccessTime` is invalid[[#2581]](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/2581).
